Redo introduction of design overview (#2017)
carbon-language/carbon-lang: docs/design/README.md

preliminary material fills in gaps until aspects of the design can be filled in.
Features that are provisional have been marked as such on a best-effort basis.

### Tour of the basics

Here is a simple function showing some Carbon code:

FIXME: assignment statement

```carbon
import Math;

> // Return smallest factor > 1, and whether it is prime.

Reviewer: I misread this comment a few times at first, and thought the "it" referred to the returned factor.

WDYT about an adjusted comment like:

```suggestion
// Returns the smallest factor of `n` > 1, and whether `n` itself is prime.
```

fn SmallestFactor(n: i32) -> (i32, bool) {
  let limit: i32 = Math.Sqrt(n) as i32;
  var i: i32 = 2;
  while (i <= limit) {
    let remainder: i32 = n % i;
    if (remainder == 0) {
      Carbon.Print("{0} is a factor of {1}", i, n);
      return (i, false);
    }
    if (i == 2) {
      i = 3;
    } else {

>       i += 2;

Reviewer: This is a neat trick, maybe a comment to make it more obvious at first glance why?

```suggestion
      // Skip even numbers once we get past `2`.
      i += 2;
```

or something in curly braces `{`...`}`.

A few other features that are unlike C or C++ may stand out. First,
[declarations](#declarations-definitions-and-scopes) start with introducer
keywords. `fn` introduces a function declaration, and `var` introduces a
[variable declaration](#variable-var-declarations).

The example starts with an [`import` declaration](#imports). Carbon imports are
more like [C++ modules](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/modules) than
[textual inclusion during preprocessing using `#include`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/preprocessor/include).
The `import` declaration imports a
[library from a package](#files-libraries-packages). It must appear at the top
of a Carbon source file, the first thing after the
[optional `package` declaration](#package-declaration). Libraries can be split
into [api and implementation files](#files-libraries-packages), like C++'s
header and source files. This declaration from the example:

```carbon
import Math;
```

imports the default library from package `Math`. The names from this library are
accessible as members of `Math`, like `Math.Sqrt`. The `Carbon.Print` function

> comes from the `Carbon` package which is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
comes from the `Carbon` package's prelude library which is
```

[imported by default](#name-lookup-for-common-types). Unlike C++, the namespaces
of different packages are kept separate, so there are no name conflicts.

Carbon [comments](#code-and-comments) must be on a line by themselves starting

> with `//`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with `//`:
```

```carbon
// Return smallest factor > 1, and whether it is prime.
```

A [function definition](#functions) consists of:

-   the `fn` keyword introducer,
-   the function's name,
-   a parameter list in round parens `(`...`)`,
-   an optional `->` and return type, and
-   a body inside curly braces `{`...`}`.

```carbon
fn SmallestFactor(n: i32) -> (i32, bool) {
  ...
      return (i, false);
  ...
  return (n, true);
}
```

The body of the function is an ordered sequence of
[statements](#blocks-and-statements) and
[declarations](#declarations-definitions-and-scopes). Function execution ends
with an optional `return` statement that specifies an expression whose value is

> returned.

Reviewer: `return` statements aren't always optional -- and in fact is not optional in this function though...

But I understand not wanting to get into that. Maybe:

```suggestion
[declarations](#declarations-definitions-and-scopes). Function execution ends
when it reaches a `return` statement or the end of the function body. `return` statements can also specify an expression whose value is
returned.
```

preliminary material fills in gaps until aspects of the design can be filled in.
Features that are provisional have been marked as such on a best-effort basis.

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: This header is terse, and the next section ("A tour of the basics") is a child of this example.  Suggest calling this whole section "A tour of the basics" and drop the section break.

Otherwise, you'd take each of the concepts (expressions, functions, etc.) and break them into #### subpieces, but I don't think that'll scale given that you'll have other, more detailed sections with similar names later.

Author: Done.

Here is a simple function showing some Carbon code:

```carbon
import Console;

// Prints the Fibonacci numbers less than `limit`.
fn Fibonacci(limit: i64) -> (i64, i32) {
  var a: i64 = 0;
  var b: i64 = 1;
  var n: i32 = 0;
  while (a < limit) {
    Console.Print("{0}: {1}\n", n, a);
    // Stop before overflow.
    if (b > 1 << 62) {
      break;
    }
    let next: i64 = a + b;
    a = b;
    b = next;
    ++n;
  }
  // Returns value and index.
  return (a, n);
}
```

Carbon is a language that should feel familiar to C++ and C developers. This
example has familiar constructs like [imports](#imports),
[comments](#code-and-comments), [function definitions](#functions),
[typed arguments](#binding-patterns), and [expressions](#expressions).

> Statements and declarations are terminated with a `;` or something in curly

Reviewer 2: This a moment where we could define statements, and possibly note that they are ordered.  See the comment on "expressions" below.

Author: I'm just going to link to the statement and declaration sections here, and go into more detail below.

braces `{`...`}`.

A few other features that are unlike C or C++ may stand out. First,
[declarations](#declarations-definitions-and-scopes) start with introducer
keywords. `fn` introduces a function declaration, and `var` introduces a
[variable declaration](#variable-var-declarations).

> ### Tour of the basics

Reviewer 2: As noted, I'd just remove this section break.

Author: Done.

The example starts with an [`import` declaration](#imports). Carbon imports are
more like [C++ modules](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/modules) than
[textual inclusion during preprocessing using `#include`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/preprocessor/include).
The `import` declaration imports a
[library from a package](#files-libraries-packages). It must appear at the top
of a Carbon source file, the first thing after the
[optional `package` declaration](#package-declaration). Libraries can be split
into [api and implementation files](#files-libraries-packages), like C++'s

> header and source files. This declaration from the example:

Reviewer: Just a tweak to avoid a wrong assumption that it seems folks make here:

```suggestion
[optional `package` declaration](#package-declaration). Libraries can optionally be split
into [api and implementation files](#files-libraries-packages), like C++'s
header and source files but without requiring a source file in any cases. This declaration from the example:
```

That said, maybe just skip this and leave this out of the tour of basics?

Author: I deleted the sentence, but I'm wondering if I should put it back in since it might be useful to understand things like forward declarations?

Reviewer: Yeah, maybe it is useful in that way to keep in the early material.

Author: Putting it back in.

```carbon
import Console;
```

imports the default library from package `Carbon`. The names from this library
are accessible as members of `Console`, like `Console.Print`. Unlike C++, the
namespaces of different packages are kept separate, so there are no name
conflicts.

Carbon [comments](#code-and-comments) must be on a line by themselves starting
with `//`.

```carbon
// Prints the Fibonacci numbers less than `limit`.
...
    // Stop before overflow.
...
  // Returns value and index.
```

> Carbon [function definitions](#functions) start with the `fn` keyword, followed

Reviewer 2: As with variables, if this is a structural list of parts, it might be easier as a list.

"A function definition consists of:

* The `fn` keyword introducer [isn't this also an introducer, technically?]
*  The function name
* A parameter list
* An optional return type
* A body inside curly braces `{`...`}`

Function execution ends with a[n optional] `return` statement that specifies an expression to return.

Author: I've added something about statements in the body. Also, values are returned by functions, not expressions.

by the function name, parameter list, optional return type, and the body with
the code inside curly braces `{`...`}`. Function execution ends with a `return`
statement that specifies the value to return.

```carbon
fn Fibonacci(limit: i64) -> (i64, i32) {
  ...
  return (a, n);
}
```

Here `i64` and `i32` refer to signed [integer types](#integer-types), with 64
and 32 bits respectively. Carbon has [`bool` boolean type](#bool),
[floating-point types](#floating-point-types) like `f32` and `f64`, and
[string types](#string-types).

[Variables are declared](#variable-var-declarations) with the `var` keyword
introducer. This is followed by the name, `:`, and the type, like parameters

> declared in the function signature. This is followed by an optional initializer.

Reviewer 2: "this is followed" twice is a little rough.  You could rewrite it:  "A variable declaration has four parts:

* The `var` keyword introducer
* The name followed by a ":"
* The type, declared the same way found in a function signature
* An initializer (optional)

Author: Done with some modifications. The "_name_`:` _type_" is the thing that matches the function signature.

```carbon
  var a: i64 = 0;
```

> The value of a variable is modified using an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can modify the value of a variable with an
```

[assignment statement](#assignment-statements):

```carbon
    a = b;
    b = next;
    ++n;
```

[Constants are declared](#constant-let-declarations) with the `let` keyword
introducer. The syntax parallels variable declarations except the initializer is
required:

```carbon
    let next: i64 = a + b;
```

Here, `a + b` is an [expression](#expressions) using the `+` operator.

> Expressions can be statements on their own, as in:

Reviewer 2: There's some nuance here.  

Up until now, we've been saying "statement" without really meaning much outside of "line of code".   Looking around in the rest of the doc, I couldn't easily find out what a statement is.  It's defined formally here: https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/blob/trunk/proposals/p0162.md#statements.  We say "Each statement can, among other things, be an expression" in the Blocks and Statements design doc, but aren't specific about other types of things inside a block.

Statements are ordered units of computation, perhaps?  Separated by newlines or semicolons?  See above for the place where we should talk about it.

The, here, I might suggest:

"`a + b` is an [expression](#expressions) that returns a value returned by the + operator.  [Maybe: An expression is any construction that returns a value.]

Expression return values are ignored when expressions are used as statements, as in: "

Author: A call to a function is definitely an expression. This is true even if the function has no return value or never returns.

How is this new text?

Reviewer 2: This is fine.  The interesting thing here is that + is a function (via override), but there's too much going on here to get into that.

```carbon
    Console.Print("{0}: {1}\n", n, a);
```

This expression is a function call, which consists of the name of the function
followed by the argument list in round parentheses `(`...`)`.

> Control flow statements including `if`, `while`, and `break` work like C++:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Control flow statements including `if`, `while`, and `break` work as they do in C++:
```

themselves modeled as values; specifically, compile-time constant values. This
means that the grammar for writing a type is the [expression](#expressions)

> grammar. Expressions written where a type is expected must be able to be

Reviewer 2: I got confused here; lots of dependent clauses.

Maybe: "At compile time, when an expression used as a type, the expression must:

* Be able to evaluated, and
* Must evaluate to a type value.  

Expressions that have parameters that are expressed using function-call syntax." 

I'd suggest an example, if you have one that's not very long.

Author: I rewrote this section. Maybe it is better now?

Expressions compute values in Carbon, and these values are always strongly typed
much like in C++. However, an important difference from C++ is that types are
themselves modeled as values; specifically, compile-time-constant values. This
has a number of consequences:

-   Names for types are in the same namespace shared with functions, variables,
    namespaces, and so on.
-   The grammar for writing a type is the [expression](#expressions) grammar,

>     not a separate grammar for types. So Carbon doesn't use angle brackets
>     `<`...`>` in types, since `<` and `>` are used for comparison in
>     expressions.

Reviewer: Not sure if I'm finding the best grammar tweak here, but maybe:

```suggestion
    not a separate grammar for types. Carbon also doesn't use angle brackets
    `<`...`>` in types, since `<` and `>` are used for comparison in
    expressions.
```

Author: Hmm, I was trying to portray this as a consequence of using the same grammar for types and expressions.

Reviewer: Ok, I worry that folks may think that is the *only* reason, but I don't think it's a big deal either way. The wording in the latest version seems fine.

-   _Irrefutable_ patterns are guaranteed to match, so long as the code
    type-checks.

> In the [first example](#example), [function parameters](#functions),

Reviewer 2: "In the Introduction", maybe?

Author: Done.
